# Laser-Pointer-Interaction
During the 2018 Fall semester I took AR Deisgn for Cultural Heritage in which I worked to develop an interactive planetarium show in collaboration with the Museum of Innovation and Science (MiSci) in Schenectady , NY and Troy Middle School. For the project we created an immersive experience for middle school students to teach them about Harriet Tubman and her use of STEM and astronomy. To achieve this we gave our audience invisible infrared laser pointers that they could use to change how the story was taught. This worked to imbed them into the storytelling process. During the project I worked primarily in Unity and Python to develop the infrared laser pointers tracker as well as the program to warp the imagery onto the irregular dome at the museum. Furthermore I worked as a lead design document writer. Therefore I had a major say over the content of the show as well as how the team handled problems during development.

This repo contains the Unity program we used to track the infrared laser pointers. To accomplish this we used Python. Within Python we use openCV to detect blobs of light that we then compare to what infrared light looks like. We then use zeromq to send the location of the light to a Unity program. Unity then creates a star in the correct location that corresponds to the location of the laser pointer.

To run the laser pointer interaction please first download Python and all required add-ons. These add-ons consist of openCV, numpy, zeromq, and goprocam. Once all these files have been downloaded and configured you can open and run the "laser_tracker" python file. After a short delay, a blank window will open. Once this has happened run the "Laser Pointer Interaction" Unity runnable application. Once all this is running any light that is shined in front of the camera will produce a star on your computer in the position of the light. 

To easily demonstrate the laser pointer interaction you can also use a computer’s webcam instead of a GoPro. In order to do this uncomment line 19 in the "laser_tracker" python file and comment out lines 22-26 and line 132. On top of this you can skip over Unity as well. To do this comment out line 135.
